[Music]
the heroine of this story lived a very
long life the longest among Nobel Prize
winners she was an amazing woman who
became a scientist despite her father's
objection Rita levy Montalcino
was the most extravagant Nobel Prize
winner and one of only a few women to
have done so she lived to be 103 years
old and dedicated her whole life to
science
she was a neurobiologist and brain
specialist who gained international
recognition and legendary fame making
history with science despite all the
obstacles she faced she never complained
about the difficulties was optimistic
and cheerful and was sure that the
secret of her longevity was in her
endless love of work Rita was born in
Italy on April 22nd 1909 in a
patriarchal family her mother
Adele Montalcino was an artist her
father Adamo levy was an engineer and
mathematician they both loved art
classical music and literature
three of the four levy Montalcino
children earned fame and recognition
luigi became one of the best architects
of his time and read his twin Paola
became an artist like her mother in her
memoirs reader wrote that there was a
great atmosphere in their family full of
love and mutual affection
her parents were intelligent
well-educated people and they cultivated
the value of intellectual professions
but all the decisions were made by the
head of the family husband and father
he loved his daughters very much and had
a great respect for women in general but
he thought that their career would
interfere with their duty as wives and
mothers he was sure that girls weren't
supposed to study and have a career a
woman had to be wise not for self
development but for self-denial the
girls got a good domestic education but
Rita wasn't going to be satisfied with
the role of mother and wife her idol was
a Swedish writer named Selma longer loft
who became the third woman to get a
Nobel Prize as a child Rita
wanted to become a writer too but life
threw some curves at her biography a
very close and dear friend of hers
governess Giovanna died of cancer and
this made Rita choose medicine instead
of literature against all her father's
objections
Rita spent eight months learning Latin
and biology all by herself and entered
the Medical College of the University of
Turin at the age of 27 she got a PhD in
medicine and four years later one more
in psychiatry and neurology later Rita
would say give education to your son and
you'll have an educated person give
education to your daughter and you'll
have a wife a family and an educated
Society after graduation she started
working as an assistant to a well known
scientist giuseppe levy he was a pioneer
of laboratory cell research and the one
to encourage read his interest for neuro
embryology thanks to him she got the
precious experience of studying at the
brussels institute of neurology and
psychiatric clinics of the university of
turin giuseppe levy was a great teacher
he brought up three future Nobel Prize
winners his namesake Reda levy
Montalcino and virologist Salvatore
laurio and renato dulbecco in 1938 she
had to leave the laboratory that would
discourage anyone but not Rita at that
time she was interested in the process
of the growth of nerve fibers and she
used chicken embryos for that purpose
since they were easy to keep
Reidy used to grow them right in her
bedroom in the modest apartment that she
rented in the outskirts of Turin and
then in Florence later she would say
that she was grateful for this obstacle
as working at home by herself
allowed her to achieve better results
after 1945 Rita came back to the
laboratory again soon American
colleagues became interested in the
results of her research Viktor hamburger
a neurobiologist and embryologist was
among them Rita who was under the great
influence of his works sent the result
of her research to the US she found out
that for the normal development of the
nervous system nerve cells had to be
destroyed but in a special programmed
way like any absurd idea of a young
scientist at first it wasn't accepted by
the scientific community but still
hamburger invited Rita to st. Louis and
made her a staff scientist during her
work in st. Louis
she managed to prove that there was a
special stimulating agent that had an
effect on the growth of nerves she
called it a nerve growth factor ngf in
1953 an American biochemist Stanley
Cohen joined the team of researchers
where Montalcino worked and together
they advanced the previous results to
the Nobel Prize level the scientific
community wasn't very enthusiastic about
the discovery it was widely known then
that the nerve tissue couldn't
regenerate or grow at first glance it
looked like the experiments contradicted
the existing laws of physiology and yet
Montalcino and Cowan turned out to be
right and discovered many other growth
factors soon their discovery started to
be used in medicine to regenerate
damaged nerves and make skin
transplantation easier and more
successful having made a remarkable
career in the US professor Levy
Montalcino came back to her homeland and
devoted herself to developing science in
Italy she opened new research
laboratories in the National Institute
of Health in Rome and in the national
research council at the same time
she was a professor at Washington
University and lived in two continents
Montalcino and Cohen didn't get their
Nobel Prize until 1986
Reed it was 77 at the time with her
trademark humor she called their nobel
lecture in the style of alexandre dumas
nervous growth factor thirty-five years
later their discovery was called an
amazing example of how an experienced
researcher can make a conception out of
what seems like total chaos
Rita's works in the u.s. were
instrumental in further research of
cancer and Alzheimer disease their
fundamental for a better understanding
of the growth of cells and organs unlike
her meteoric career her personal life
wasn't that successful at least in the
traditional sense she never got married
and had no children but it was her
conscious decision she used to say that
her life was full of great relationships
with work and hobbies
apart from science she supported charity
projects and young scientists Rita levy
Montalcino was famous for her
hospitality she used to give dress-up
parties and mesmerize her guests with
her jokes and sharp wit her sayings were
often quoted as Maxim's
she inherited her mother's artistic
taste and invented her style of clothing
by herself she always looked great and
had an immaculate hairdo at the
celebration of her 100th birthday at the
European Brain Research Institute which
she had founded herself she said that
she kept an amazing clarity of mind
because of everyday work her mind was as
keen as before and she kept working on
her research for a couple of hours daily
she said that despite her age her mind
was sharper than at age 20 and this was
thanks to experience among other secrets
of longevity that she shared was waking
up early going to bed at 11:00 p.m. and
moderate eating she ate once or twice a
day because she was totally indifferent
to food she claimed that worse sight and
hearing were not a big deal it happens
to almost everyone
it's much more important that the brain
keeps working well she thought herself
very lucky to have lived to such an age
a body dies anyway but the message that
we send during our lifetime stays
forever Rita said my message is to
believe in true values in Italy in 2001
she became a senator for life this title
is only given to ex presidents and the
citizens who have brought glory to their
homeland by their achievements in art
and science she also said that not all
people should live to be a hundred years
old even if it were possible
biologically in that case there would be
no place for newborns Rita herself
passed away just before her 104th
birthday when she was fast asleep she
will always stay in the history of
science under the name of an empress of
cells Wow
are you impressed with Rita levy Michael
Cheney story do you know any other
people who have made a great career
despite all the obstacles let me know
down in the comments hey if you learn
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go earning your Nobel Prize
just yet we have over 2,000 cool videos
for you to check out just click on this
left or right video and enjoy stay on
the bright side of life